# 📦 Backup your store folder

After 1.4.19, ensure consistent daily backups of the `node/.config/store` folder. Why?

After V 1.4.19 your `node/.config/store` folder will hold the individual proofs generated by your node. Your rewards accumulated AFTER 1.4.19 are associated with these proofs.

If you clear or lose your store backup AFTER 1.4.19, you risk losing the rewards associated with the proofs in the store! Prior rewards will remain unaffected, but rewards earned during the period tracked by your store folder will be lost.

The store folder will be cleared with version 1.4.19 and then will grow approximately by 31 MB per week.

It will continue to grow until version 2.0, reaching a maximum of 124 MB (assuming the worst-case scenario of needing 1.4.21 instead of 1.4.20 as the last release prior to 2).

### How to back up?

* If you have set up your server with RAID 1, you are already backing up all your data on your second disk. Still, ensure your provider offers reliable support in case of need.
* If you are using [CherryServers,](https://quilibrium.one/go/cherryservers) they already provide backup storage by default, and you can set up a cronjob to back up your store folder every hour (they will assist you if needed).
* If you don't have many nodes, you could manually back up your store folder once a day, since the size will be minimal.
* You could utilize an online service such as [iDrive](https://quilibrium.one/idrive) and set up automatic backups every hour via their Linux CLI tool.
* There are also more sophisticated methods to create automatic backups on Linux, but you need to have expertise in this area.

### Script to back up on Amazon AWS

I created a little script to set up automatic backups on Amazon AWS.

Please note that in order for this to work, you need:

* Amazon AWS account
* Public/Private keys to access your account
* A "bucket" in Amazon AWS (better if specific to Quilibrium)

For security it is better to create Public/Private keys that only access your Quilibrium bucket. The whole process of creating users and keys on Amazon AWS is not very user-friendly, keep this in mind!

If you have all of the above, you can use the script by running this:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```bash
wget -P ~/scripts -O ~/scripts/qnode_store_backup_aws.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lamat1111/QuilibriumScripts/main/tools/qnode_store_backup_aws.sh && chmod +x ~/scripts/qnode_store_backup_aws.sh && ~/scripts/qnode_store_backup_aws.sh
```
{% endcode %}
