# ⁉️ Troubleshooting

### Panic: resource temporarily unavailable&#x20;

This error means you have an already running instance of the node. Follow the step below to kill all nodes and restart just one instance.

***

### Command GO not found

Check your .bashrc file

```bash
cat ~/.bashrc
```

At the very end you should see

```bash
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
```

If there are duplicates, remove them, save and exit and then run `source ~/.bashrc`

If instead those lines are not there, add them by running this command.&#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```bash
echo -e "\nexport GOROOT=/usr/local/go\nexport GOPATH=\$HOME/go\nexport PATH=\$GOPATH/bin:\$GOROOT/bin:\$PATH" >> ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bashrc
```
{% endcode %}

Now try again to do whatever you were doing.

If you still get the c_ommand GO not found_ error you may try to simply export those variable temporarily, by running

```bash
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
```

See if this fixes the issue. If it does, keep in mind that you will have to run again those variable every time you reboot your server, because they are active only temporarily.

***

### Node not visible to bootstrap peers

If by checking here [https://dashboard.quilibrium.com/](https://dashboard.quilibrium.com/) your node is not visible, you may lose rewards.

The first thing to do is to check your `node/.config/config.yml` file and see if all the settings are correct.&#x20;

Got to [set-up-the-grpc-calls.md](set-up-the-grpc-calls.md "mention") , run the automatic script but also check manually to be sure.

Check also that your 8336 port is open, run `sudo ufw status`, the response should be similar to this one:

```
Status: active

To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
22                         ALLOW       Anywhere                  
8336                       ALLOW       Anywhere                  
443                        ALLOW       Anywhere                  
22 (v6)                    ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)             
8336 (v6)                  ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)             
443 (v6)                   ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)     
```

Then restart your node, wait 15 minutes and check again on   [https://dashboard.quilibrium.com/](https://dashboard.quilibrium.com/)

***



### gRPCurl not found

Try the same solution as [#command-go-not-found](troubleshooting.md#command-go-not-found "mention")

***

### Remove gRPC calls settings from config.yml&#x20;

If you want to remove the gRPC calls setting from your config.yml file here is what you have to do:

1. Open the file root/ceremonyclient/node/.config/config.yml on your local pc using WinSCP\

2. Find `listenGrpcMultiaddr: /ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/8337` and replace it with `listenGrpcMultiaddr: “”`\

3. Find `statsMultiaddr: "dns/stats.quilibrium.com/tcp/443"` and remove the line completely\
   now your config.yml should be as it was generated by the node itself

***

### How to debug your config.yml&#x20;

A simple way to debug your config.yml file if you are not a dev is to create a node from scratch and download locally the config.yml file. Then download the config.yml of your working node, the one you have edited either via a script or manually.

At this point, use a tool such as [Diffinity](https://truehumandesign.se/s\_diffinity.php), to compare the 2 files.

_The encryption keys will be different of course, and you may have some more lines in the "bootstrapPeers" section of one of the files, but you should easily see the lines you have added or if there is any typing error in the file you edited._

***

### Frame number: 0&#x20;

If you see _Frame number:0_ in your node log for a long time, one way to debug is to check if access to the network is healthy and that port 8336 is accessible remotely.

1. From your local PC or a system other than the node:
2. Make sure you have netcat installed: `sudo apt install netcat`
3. Confirm reachability of bootstrap: `nc -vzu YOUR_SERVER_IP 8336`\
   _Replace YOUR\_SERVER\_IP with your node's IP\*_

***

### Panic: get parent data clock frame: item not found&#x20;

If you imported an external "store" folder to kickstart your node synchronization, you may see this error, while the node keeps crashing.\
Stop the node, delete the "SELF\_TEST" file from your ".config" folder, and restart the node. If this doesn't solve, try to import in the ".config" folder the "REPAIR" file from another working node, and delete the existing one.\
Give the node 10–15 minutes to see if everything works correctly.

***

<table data-card-size="large" data-column-title-hidden data-view="cards" data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th><th data-hidden></th><th data-hidden data-card-cover data-type="files"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>The Best Server Providers for your Nodes</strong></td><td>CLICK TO SEE THEM</td><td><a href="best-server-providers.md">best-server-providers.md</a></td><td></td><td><a href=".gitbook/assets/best-serve-providers-banner-text-1-1-B.jpg">best-serve-providers-banner-text-1-1-B.jpg</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Want to say thank you?</strong></td><td>CLICK TO DONATE</td><td><a href="want-to-say-thank-you.md">want-to-say-thank-you.md</a></td><td></td><td><a href=".gitbook/assets/donations-banner-text-1-1-B.jpg">donations-banner-text-1-1-B.jpg</a></td></tr></tbody></table>
