# ⁉️ OLD Troubleshooting

### Panic: resource temporarily unavailable&#x20;

This error means you have an already running instance of the node. Follow the step below to kill all nodes and restart just one instance.

***

### How to kill and restart the node&#x20;

Sometimes you may need to kill and restart the node. For instance, if you made the mistake of starting 2 separate instances of the node.\
You may also verify this by running the command `ps -ef` . It will list all your running processes, look for ".../exe/node". There should be only one.\
\
Go to your root folder

```bash
cd root
```

Kill all the node processes

```bash
pkill node && pkill -f "go run ./..."
```

Go into your tmux session and start again the node.\
`~/scripts/qnode_restart.sh` will only work if you have run the autoinstaller in this guide. Otherwise you have to use `GOEXPERIMENT=arenas go run ./...`

```bash
tmux a -t quil
```

```bash
~/scripts/qnode_restart.sh
```

To detach from tmux press CTRL+B then D.

***

### Errors on servers that already hosted a node&#x20;

If you've already attempted to install a node on your server and then ran the auto-install script, you may encounter errors. Execute these commands sequentially, and they should typically suffice for initiating a new installation.

```bash
sudo swapoff /swap/swapfile 2>/dev/null; sudo sed -i '/\/swap\/swapfile/d' /etc/fstab; sudo rm /swap/swapfile 2>/dev/null; sudo rmdir /swap 2>/dev/null || sudo rm -rf /swap
```

```bash
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go && sudo rm -rf /root/ceremonyclient
```

***

### Command GO not found

add variables to your .bashrc If you see the error _Command GO not found_, then try to run this command. This will add some variables to your .bashrc file

```bash
echo -e "\nexport PATH=\$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin:\$HOME/go\nexport GOEXPERIMENT=arenas" >> ~/.bashrc
```

Alternatively, you can temporarily add these variables using the command below. Please note that these changes will not persist after rebooting the server:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin:$HOME/go
export GOEXPERIMENT=arenas
```

***

The issue could also be caused by these variables having been added more than once. Open your `root/.bashrc` file with Termius SFTP or WinSCP and scroll down until you see

```bash
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
export GOEXPERIMENT=arenas
```

If there are duplicates, delete them and save. If something is missing, you can add manually the missing lines and save.

***

### Remove gRPC calls settings from config.yml&#x20;

If you want to remove the gRPC calls setting from your config.yml file here is what you have to do:

1. Open the file root/ceremonyclient/node/.config/config.yml on your local pc using WinSCP\

2. Find `listenGrpcMultiaddr: /ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/8337` and replace it with `listenGrpcMultiaddr: “”`\

3. Find `statsMultiaddr: "dns/stats.quilibrium.com/tcp/443"` and remove the line completely\
   now your config.yml should be as it was generated by the node itself

***

### How to debug your config.yml&#x20;

A simple way to debug your config.yml file if you are not a dev is to create a node from scratch and download locally the config.yml file. Then download the config.yml of your working node, the one you have edited either via a script or manually.

At this point, use a tool such as [Diffinity](https://truehumandesign.se/s\_diffinity.php), to compare the 2 files.

_The encryption keys will be different of course, and you may have some more lines in the "bootstrapPeers" section of one of the files, but you should easily see the lines you have added or if there is any typing error in the file you edited._

***

### Frame number: 0&#x20;

If you see _Frame number:0_ in your node log for a long time, one way to debug is to check if access to the network is healthy and that port 8336 is accessible remotely.

1. From your local PC or a system other than the node:
2. Make sure you have netcat installed: `sudo apt install netcat`
3. Confirm reachability of bootstrap: `nc -vzu YOUR_SERVER_IP 8336`\
   _Replace YOUR\_SERVER\_IP with your node's IP\*_

***

### Panic: get parent data clock frame: item not found&#x20;

If you imported an external "store" folder to kickstart your node synchronization, you may see this error, while the node keeps crashing.\
Stop the node, delete the "SELF\_TEST" file from your ".config" folder, and restart the node. If this doesn't solve, try to import in the ".config" folder the "REPAIR" file from another working node, and delete the existing one.\
Give the node 10–15 minutes to see if everything works correctly.

***

### Run your node without the qnode\_restart script

Kill your tmux session

```
tmux kill-session -t quil
```

Create  a new tmux session and run the node without the script

```bash
tmux new-session -d -s quil 'export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin && cd ~/ceremonyclient/node && GOEXPERIMENT=arenas go run ./...'
```

&#x20;There will be no output after running this command. To check your node log, run `tmux a -t quil`\
To detach from the tmux session type CTRL+B and then D
